---
title: "Tags and Birds and Elephants, oh my!"
date: 2023-04-02T11:36:45Z
icon: alert
draft: false
tags:
- sitedev
---
I can't believe it's April already, I haven't released any music in 2023 yet,
and here I am making my first post of the year. Time flies when you're an adult
with a full-time job.

So what have I been up to, and what am I going to be doing next? Well, briefly,
I've been recovering from yet another illness since November of last year (and
strictly speaking don't know for certain that the treatment I'm is all I need,
but I seem to be improving, so fingers crossed), trying to make more time for
family & friends, and building back up to working full-time again following the
string of illnesses, personal troubles, and mental health issues that have been
plaguing me since I don't know when any more.

I do have some music in the works, but I'm not quite ready to talk about it yet.
That'll get its own announcement, hopefully soon. I've also been dabbling in
[making my own Eurorack-compatible circuits](https://depthbuffer.tumblr.com/post/712515188445822976/my-4x-level-booster-the-first-circuit-i-designed).
I don't quite want to call them "modules", since they aren't standard sizes,
don't have panels, and won't be available for purchase (purely one-offs for
personal use); that said, the intent is they will work with Eurorack signal
levels & patch cables, and be powered by Eurorack power connectors.

The electronics will go hand-in-hand with the music; hopefully it'll become
clear in the "proper" announcement.

You might also have noticed that was a link to a Tumblr post. Well, given the
state of disrepair Twitter is falling into, and how uncomfortable I feel using
it as my main outlet given what a disgusting job Elon Musk is doing running it,
I finally bit the bullet and set up accounts both there, and on Mastodon via
[Synthwave Social](https://synthwave.social/@depthbuffer). I also removed the
Twitter feed embed from this site's right-hand menu.

Oh, speaking of the site, posts can now be tagged, and there's a tag-based
variant of the archive page. Hopefully, one day, there will be enough content
here to be worth organising.
